# Research Collaboration to Strengthen SDGs Implementation at UPI Cibiru Campus with The IDEC Institute, Hiroshima University

> Source: https://kd-cibiru.upi.edu/index.php/daftar-kategori/prodi-s1-pgsd/kolaborasi-riset-penguatan-implementasi-sdgs-upi-kampus-cibiru-bersama-the-idec-institute-hiroshima-university

Research Collaboration to Strengthen SDGs Implementation at UPI Cibiru Campus with The IDEC Institute, Hiroshima University
July 29, 2025
Admin S1 PGSD
S1 PGSD Study Program
Research Collaboration to Strengthen SDGs Implementation at UPI Cibiru Campus with The IDEC Institute, Hiroshima University

On July 12 to 18, 2025, eight lecturers from Elementary School Teacher Education (PGSD) and Early Childhood Education Teacher Education (PGPAUD) of the Indonesian University of Education (UPI) Campus in Cibiru visited Hiroshima University, specifically the IDEC ( the Graduate School for International Development and Cooperation ) Institute . The UPI Cibiru Campus group was received by Prof. Ichihashi Masaru, Director of the IDEC Institute , on Monday, July 14, 2025. In addition, also present were staff of the IDEC Institute , Asakura Takamichi, Ph.D. as Associate Professor from the Center for Global Partnership (CGP) and Nissa Aulia Belistiana Utami, M.Pd., staff of the IDEC Institute , a doctoral student (S3) at Hiroshima University and also a graduate student of the UPI Masters in Sports Education.

The visit was carried out as a form of implementation of the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) from the MoU that had been agreed upon previously, in the form of research collaboration between PGSD-PGPAUD UPI Campus in Cibiru with the IDEC Institute Hiroshima University. The collaboration was carried out in two studies; the first study entitled "Utilization of AI ( Artificial Intelligence ) in the Context of Continuous Learning Oriented to Cognitive Load Engineering of Elementary School Students" led by Dr. Yeni Yuniarti, M.Pd. While the second study entitled " Exploring Digital Storytelling to Foster Creative Thinking in Children Aged 5-10: A Comparative Study Between Indonesia and Japan" led by Prof. Dr. Hj. Leli Halimah, M.Pd. at Hiroshima University, Japan . Both studies seek to reveal how teachers perceive the implementation of AI and Digital Storytelling in learning in the context of Indonesia and Japan. The lecturers who attended the research collaboration and visit to the IDEC Institute were: Dr. Dinie Anggraeni Dewi, M.Pd., MH, Prof. Dr. Hj. Leli Halimah, M.Pd., Dr. Ai Sutini, M.Pd., Dra. Komariah, M.Pd., Dra. Deti Rostika, M.Pd., Setyaningsih Rachmania, M.Pd., Winti Ananthia, M.Ed., and Desiani Natalina Muliasari, M.Pd., Ph.D.

The activity began with a warm welcome from Prof. Ichihashi, and continued with a presentation by Takamichi on the importance of AI in supporting quality education and the development of the Indonesian-Japanese education curriculum. In his presentation, Asakura also explained how AI technology can be used to engineer students' cognitive load, especially at the elementary school level. This is certainly in line with the fourth point of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) regarding quality education, which emphasizes the importance of inclusive and quality access to education. Furthermore, during an interactive discussion between participants, various ideas and strategies for implementing AI in sustainable learning emerged. Participants agreed that AI technology can not only help reduce students' cognitive load but also increase their engagement in the learning process. The event continued with a focus group discussion (FGD) led by Desiani NM, Ph.D. In this discussion, the results of ongoing research in the Indonesian context were presented in the forum. This discussion was one of the preparations for the implementation of research data collection on the following day, Tuesday-Thursday, July 15-17, 2025, which was carried out by three Cibiru campus researchers; Setyaningsih Rachmania. M.Pd., Winti Ananthia, M.Ed., and Desiani Natalina Muliasari, M.Pd., Ph.D. with the team from The IDEC Institute, Hiroshima University.

The MoU between UPI Cibiru Campus and Hiroshima University encompasses a wide range of planned activities. In addition to the research collaboration, the two institutions also plan to hold numerous other activities, including student exchanges , regular seminars, and workshops to share knowledge and experiences related to the use of AI in education.

This collaborative research activity is expected to make a significant contribution to the achievement of the SDGs, particularly in terms of partnership (point 17); international collaboration between the Elementary School Teacher Education Department of UPI Campus in Cibiru and Hiroshima University; and education (point 4), namely improving the quality of education. This collaboration is expected to create innovations that can improve the quality of education for students and university students worldwide, with educators who maintain the quality of their professional development, particularly in Indonesia and Japan.

Views: 261
Previous article: The Elementary School Teacher Education Study Program at UPI Campus in Cibiru Congratulates the Vice Chancellors of UPI for the 2025-2030 Period Before
Next article: Dr. Yona Wahyuningsih Officially Inaugurated as a Member of the Cirebon Regency PGRI Expert Council for the 2025–2030 Term Following
FaLang translation system by Faboba
