# The Final Exam for Undergraduate Students of the Elementary School Teacher Education Study Program, UPI Cibiru Campus, April Period

> Source: https://kd-cibiru.upi.edu/index.php/daftar-kategori/prodi-s1-pgsd/ujian-sidang-mahasiswa-s1-prodi-pgsd-kampus-upi-cibiru-periode-april

The Final Exam for Undergraduate Students of the Elementary School Teacher Education Study Program, UPI Cibiru Campus, April Period
April 22, 2025
Admin S1 PGSD
S1 PGSD Study Program
The Final Exam for Undergraduate Students of the Elementary School Teacher Education Study Program, UPI Cibiru Campus, April Period

Monday 21 April 2025 as many as 21 semester 8 students of the PGSD Study Program at the UPI Campus in Cibiru took the Thesis Session Examination for the period April 2025. The exam started at 08.00 and was spread across 5 rooms (3 classrooms, 1 Cawalaloka room and 1 Smartclass room ). A total of 15 examining lecturers were involved to test the students according to the expertise of the lecturers concerned.

In the exam, students must account for their research findings before the examiners. Rizki Ramdani, one of the participants in the final exam, shared his impressions and messages after the exam. "After approximately an hour of being tested by the examiners, my impressions were perhaps more of a masyaallah (goodness) because I was given questions that made me think. My feelings were mixed, especially since there were quite a lot of revisions. But I also felt relieved because I learned more about the accountability of my thesis and what the final exam is like," he said.

The research of the participants of the final exam is broadly about the development of media, teaching materials and learning models in the fields of Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, Language, Civics, Arts and Sports at the elementary school level. With this final exam, it is hoped that students will gain experience in researching and being accountable for their research results before examiners. This thesis defense exam is also one of the gateways to determine their graduation in completing their studies at the undergraduate level (bachelor's) before they are declared to have graduated and graduated, especially when the notes from the review results from the examiners have been corrected/revised.

Have a good fight!  

Views: 422
Previous article: Participation of Lecturers and Students of PGSD UPI Cibiru in KILAU UPI Before
Next article: 2025 Elementary School Teacher Student Association Orientation: "Lighting the Light of Togetherness, Firmly Establishing Responsibility for a Harmonious Flow Within the Organization" Following
FaLang translation system by Faboba
