# UPI Cibiru Website

> Source: https://kd-cibiru.upi.edu/index.php?option=com_sppagebuilder&view=page&id=130

UPI Cibiru Website
Bachelor's Degree
Computer Engineering
COMPUTER ENGINEERING UPI CAMPUS IN CIBIRU
Home page
Profile
HR
Academic
Student
Study
Devotion
Cooperation
Journal
News
Download
What is Computer Engineering?

Computer engineering is a discipline encompassing computer science, computer design, construction technology, implementation, and maintenance of modern computer hardware and software, as well as computer-controlled equipment. In the past, computer engineering was often referred to as a combination of computer science and electrical engineering. Today, computer engineering has developed into a distinct discipline, though it is related to both electrical engineering and computer science. Computer engineering draws on computing, mathematics, and engineering.

Objective
Producing graduates who have piety towards God Almighty, love for their homeland, and have a high professional attitude and ethics based on piety towards God Almighty and love for their homeland.
Producing graduates who have high academic competence, are creative, innovative and professional, and have an entrepreneurial spirit in the field of computer engineering expertise.
Producing superior research products that are innovative, creative, high quality, and highly competitive in the field of computer engineering expertise, especially those related to modern computing systems, robotics, game technology, computer-controlled equipment, and smart device networks.
Producing graduates who can contribute to advancing, developing and empowering communities related to the use of software and hardware.

Producing graduates who are able to collaborate effectively with stakeholders at regional and national levels who support the achievement of the study program's vision and mission.

Target

The UPI Cibiru Campus Computer Engineering Undergraduate study program is expected to be able to produce human resources who can make a real contribution in advancing science in Indonesia, through scientific and technological competencies from designing, building, implementing, and maintaining professionally in the fields of hardware and software of modern computing systems, computer-controlled equipment, robotics, game technology, and embedded systems, which are enriched with personality and social competencies as well as entrepreneurial skills.

Computer Engineering

UPI Computer Engineering is the first Computer Engineering study program for undergraduate level in West Java at a State University.

Academic Links
Integrated Online Learning System (SPOT)
Online Learning System (SPADA)
Institution Link
UPI Website
SIAKKu Portal
UPI Library
Directorate of Education
Directorate of Student Affairs
INFORMATION

Computer Engineering

Jl. Education No.15, Cibiru Wetan, Kec. Cileunyi, Bandung Regency, West Java 40625
✉ tekom_cibiru@upi.edu

📞 +62 (22) 7801840

Instagram
YouTube
FaLang translation system by Faboba
