# UPI Cibiru Website

> Source: https://kd-cibiru.upi.edu/index.php?option=com_sppagebuilder&view=page&id=19

VISSTE 2023
VISSTE 2023

Virtual Summer School on Teacher Education (ViSSTE) 2023 aims to empower elementary education through research sharing and collaboration. It created a scholarly community of undergraduate program students for sharing research experiences and initiating future research collaboration. It is hosted by the Elementary Education Study Program of Cibiru Campus, Indonesian Education University. It was conducted over two months from October 16 to December 14 2023. Students from Indonesia, Malaysia, and The Philippines got knowledge from senior professors about their work and experiences in applied science, social studies, and education, especially within the scope of elementary education. They also formed several groups of discussion that were supported by a scholar. At the end of the program, there was dissemination and cultural performances from participants.

The theme of ViSSTE 2023 is Global Collaboration Research for Education Improvement through Applied Science, Social Studies, and Education . Participants of ViSSTE hail from various esteemed institutions, including the Indonesian University of Education campuses in Cibiru and Purwakarta, UIN Syarif Hidayatullah Jakarta, Muhammadiyah Prof. Dr. Hamka University, Monkayo ​​College of Arts, Sciences, and Technology in the Philippines, Binus University Jakarta, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Muhammadiyah University of Bogor Raya, State University of Malang, State University of Padang, Bina Bangsa Getsempena University, Sebelas Maret University, Pasundan University, Pakuan University Bogor, State Islamic University of Mataram, Mandalika University of Education, Perak Matriculation College in Malaysia, Yala Rajabhat University in Thailand, and Mindanao State University in the Philippines. The total number of participants for ViSSTE 2023 is 72, comprising 54 from Indonesia, 10 from Malaysia, 1 from Thailand, and 7 from the Philippines.

General lecture sessions feature expert speakers in their respective fields aimed at stimulating participants to generate creative ideas. These sessions spanned five days from October 16 to October 20, 2023, conducted via Zoom Cloud Meeting with attendance monitored via Google Form. Besides attending lectures, delegates were divided into groups and entered breakout rooms for more intensive interaction, fostering collaboration and research synergy. At the end of the lecture sessions on October 20, 2023, each delegation presented research ideas. Although the lecture sessions concluded, ViSSTE 2023 continued to the Research and Collaboration Sessions, broadcast by TVRI Bandung Station on October 15, 2023. Research and Collaboration Sessions occurred in small groups, where coaches and delegates arranged meetings via WhatsApp Groups, Zoom Cloud Meeting, or Google Meeting , developing research timelines and targets. Delegates, numbering 72, were divided into 15 groups, beginning to write research backgrounds, methods, instruments, and their validation. Based on the presented results, all groups completed the research process and prepared manuscripts for submission to reputable journals, with communication between delegates and coaches remaining robust. All manuscripts were targeted for simultaneous submission by December 14, 2023. Research findings were showcased at the closing ceremony and dissemination held on Thursday, December 14, 2023, where 24 panelists from Indonesia, the Philippines, and Malaysia provided constructive feedback and questions across various disciplines, reflecting the enthusiasm of nearly every participant.

FaLang translation system by Faboba
